📌 ameen-mvc 🚀 A CLI tool to generate a modern, Windows-compatible MERN
stack project with MVC architecture.

📖 Overview ameen-mvc is a simple and efficient CLI tool to generate a
MERN (MongoDB, Express.js, React, Node.js) stack project with a clean
MVC architecture. It helps developers set up a full-stack project within
seconds.

✨ Features ✅ MERN Stack Ready - Generates a full-stack project with
backend and frontend. ✅ MVC Architecture - Organized file structure for
scalability. ✅ Windows-Compatible - Ensures smooth setup on Windows. ✅
Pre-configured Scripts - Includes development, production, and
deployment scripts. ✅ Authentication Middleware - JWT-based
authentication setup included. ✅ MongoDB Configuration - Pre-set for
database connection with .env support. ✅ Git Initialization -
Initializes a Git repository for easy version control.

🛠️ Installation To install the CLI globally on your system, run:

sh Copy Edit npm install -g ameen-mvc 🚀 Usage To create a new MERN
project, run:

sh Copy Edit ameen-mvc myProject This will: ✔ Create a new myProject/
directory. ✔ Generate MERN MVC folder structure. ✔ Install backend
dependencies. ✔ Initialize Git. ✔ Create a React frontend inside
client/.

📂 Project Structure bash Copy Edit myProject/ │── client/ \# React
frontend (Generated by create-react-app) │── controllers/ \# Business
logic (MVC) │── models/ \# Mongoose schemas │── routes/ \# Express
routes │── middleware/ \# JWT authentication, logging, etc. │── config/
\# Database connection │── utils/ \# Helper functions │── tests/ \# Test
cases │── .gitignore \# Ignoring unnecessary files │── .env \#
Environment variables │── package.json \# Project metadata & scripts │──
server.js \# Express server entry point └── README.md \# Project
documentation 📜 Available Scripts Inside your generated project, you
can run:

🔹 Start Backend Server sh Copy Edit npm start 🔹 Start React Frontend
sh Copy Edit cd client npm start 🔹 Run Both Backend & Frontend Together
sh Copy Edit npm run dev 🔹 Install Frontend Dependencies sh Copy Edit
npm run install-client 🔹 Build Frontend for Production sh Copy Edit npm
run build ⚙ Configuration Before running the project, configure your
.env file:

ini Copy Edit MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/your-database
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key PORT=5000 🛠 Dependencies Backend Express.js
Mongoose Morgan Helmet Compression Cors Dotenv JWT Authentication
Development Tools Nodemon Concurrently 🙌 Contributing Contributions are
welcome! Follow these steps:

Fork this repository. Create a feature branch (git checkout -b
feature-newFeature). Commit your changes (git commit -m "Add new
feature"). Push to your branch (git push origin feature-newFeature).
Open a Pull Request. 📜 License This project is licensed under the MIT
License - feel free to use and modify it!

⭐ Show Some Love If you found this tool useful, please ⭐ star this
repository on GitHub! 😊

🔗 GitHub Repo: https://github.com/mhdmaeent/ameen-mvc
